Israeli forces have fired tear gas on
young Palestinians who are trying to get
into AA mosque for Friday prayers we
have Laura Khan joining us now from
occupi Jerusalem so allur tell us what's
been going on uh around the compounds of
OA
mosque absolutely now we're in a place
called wedy Jaws which is around less
than 100 met away from the alaxa mosque
compound that's just up the road now
just behind me there have been some
young um Palestinians I just want to
show you this there's a tear gas
canister actually rolling its way down
the hill um so a number of young uh
Muslim worshippers and now we have a
sorry a water skunk truck which is
spraying has been spraying water towards
Palestinians and Muslim worshippers um
this actually produces an awful smell
which has been drifting in the air so
they have been um attacked by tear gas
grenades we H actually got it pretty bad
um when they first started shooting and
you can smell the skunk water it's
pretty nasty uh now the reason why there
are these confrontations is since
October the 7th there has been vast
restrictions on Muslims entering the
place they rever as the third holiest
place in Islam the al- axam mosque
compound so um they're only allowing
anyone over 45 but even then they can
restrict them in the last weeks we've
only seen around 3 to 4,000 where
usually you'd have between 50 and 60,000
people praying in the mosque so there's
been real tension here there has been
condemnations by the Palestinian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs um and they
also condemned attacks on journalists
specifically here in Wy Jaws but people
I've been speaking to say what are these
condemnations and what does it actually
mean to them on the ground and the
Israelis are also saying the reason why
they're restricting them is in order to
prevent confrontation
they say this is causing exactly that so
you can see there's police um blocking
areas the young people have now gone
down the hill um and we've just seen
various lineups of police coming up and
down the hill so we will keep you
updated as to what's happening all right
Laura we will cross back to you a little
later on for the time being thank you
for that update from occupied East
Jerusalem